See:
- [overview](overview.md) of the project: learning goals,
  group work, and overview of tasks and pipeline
- [step by step](stepsinstructions.md) instructions.

Now delete these lines and replace by your own "readme"
to document your pipeline.
Your result summary should go in a different markdown file,
`report.md`.

## task 1
A shell script [1_get_refernece_genome.sh](scripts/1_get_refernece_genome.sh) is created to downloead 7 chromosomes: chromosomes 1 though 5, the mitochondrial DNA ("chrM") and the chloroplast DNA ("chrC"), into the directory [data](data).

Run `./scripts/1_get_refernece_genome.sh` to reproduce.

## task 2
A shell script [2_get_SNP_data.sh](scripts/2_get_SNP_data.sh) is created to read the web info in the "Genomes Finished" section from the [website](http://signal.salk.edu/atg1001/download.php), so as to get all of the strain names. With a `for` loop structure of `wget` command, 217 files named `quality_variant_<strain_name>.txt` would be downloaded into the directory [data](data).

Run `./scripts/2_get_SNP_data.sh` to reproduce.

## task 3
The [3_build_individual_genomes.sh](scripts/3_build_individual_genomes.sh) script  returns an alignment of the DNA seqences of the DNA sequences of all strains for a chromosome of interest and for a genomic range of interest.

It takes 3 arguments: chromosome (in 1-5,C or M), starting base position (e.g. 1,2,...), ending base position.

Under `scripts/` folder, run `./3_build_individual_genomes.sh 1 20 40` for example.

## task 4
The shell script [4_alignment_blocks.sh](scripts/4_alignment_blocks.sh) extracts *non-overlapping* and *consecutive* alignments from a chromosome and loops over the script from task 3 `3_build_individual_genomes.sh`. The script produces output files (same as in script 3) into the `alignments/` directory. Each file contains blocks of a set length and base positions from each strain.

It takes 3 arguments: 
- chromosome (in 1-5,C or M)
- starting position index in base pairs (e.g. 1,2,...)
- number of blocks to produce

Run the shell script from the main directory to reproduce (1 3000000 30 is an example):
```
bash scripts/4_alignment_blocks.sh 1 3000000 30
```
A test version of alignment blocks is found in `alignments/`, looking at chromosome 1 and includes 5 strains and 3 short blocks of 500 bp starting at 3000001 bp.

## task 5
The shell script [5_build_tree.sh](scripts/5_build_tree.sh) builds a tree for each alignment file in `alignments/` and outputs the `.treefile` with the same name as alignment into `iqtree/`. 

To reproduce, run `./scripts/5_build_tree.sh` from the main directory. Before running, please make sure all files in `alignments/` are alignments generated by '4_alignment_blocks.sh'.

## task 6

The shell script [6_tree_distances.sh](scripts/6_tree_distances.sh) uses IQ-TREE to calculate the Robinson-Foulds (RF) distance between pairs of (unrooted) trees and between pairs of trees from consective tree in `iqtree/` from task 5.

The expected output files in `treedist/` are:
- `chrX-all.tre`: concontanated file of all trees in `iqtree/`
- `chrX-all.tre.rfdist`: distance between pairs of unrooted trees, where the first column is the Tree index starting at zero, and the matrix of RF distances ordered by Tree similarly to the first column. 
-  `chrX-all.adj.tre.rfdist`: file containing the distances between all pairs of adjacent trees (i.e. trees on adjacent lines in the file).
- `chrX-all.adj.tre.log`: log file from the adjacent tree comparison. More information on file output can be found [here](stepinstructions.md).

Run the shell script from the main directory to reproduce:
```
bash scripts/6_tree_distances.sh
```